[nucleus-3.0] form-group component (#222)
centrica-engineering/nucleus-docs: docs/components/ns-form-group.md

---

> description: Molecule | Formgroup component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Molecule | Form group component.
```

---

import { StorybookStory } from '../../includes/storybook-story.js'
import { ComponentPlacement } from '../../includes/component-placement.js'
import { PageFooter } from '../../includes/page-footer.js'

## Introduction

> > The ns-form-group component is used to group related ns-inputters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `ns-form-group` component is used to group related `ns-inputters`.
```

Use where you would normally use a vanilla html fieldset element. This element extends the layout for `ns-form`.

## Best practises

| 💚 Do's | 💔 Don'ts |
| :--- | :--- |

> | Add a legend | Group unrelated ns-inputters |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Add a legend | Group unrelated `ns-inputter`s |
```

> | Only use inside the ns-form component | Nest `ns-form-group`s unnecessarily, as this can lead to confusion |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Only use inside the `ns-form` component | Nest `ns-form-group`s unnecessarily, as this can lead to confusion |
```

### Considerations of best practises

> A legend is required to make the formgroup accessible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `<legend>` is required to make `ns-form-group` accessible
```

https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H71

> > The first element inside the formgroup must be a legend element, which provides a label or description for the group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The first element inside `ns-form`group` must be a `<legend>` element, it provides a label or description for the group.
```

## Usage

<StorybookStory story="form-components-ns-form-group--standard"></StorybookStory>

## Component placement

<ComponentPlacement component="ns-form-group" parentComponents="ns-form"></ComponentPlacement>

### Note
When adding radio buttons and checkboxes to `ns-inputter` inside an `ns-form-group`, its heading size will match the size of all labels from other `ns-inputter`. This helps keep a logical visual hierarchy in a form.

## Specification

| Attribute | Property | Type | Default | Options | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `legend` | `legend` | `text`  |  |  | Add a legend to describe the contents of the formgroup |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `legend` | `legend` | `text`  |  |  | Add a `<legend>` to describe the contents of `ns-form-group` |
```

| Slots | Type |
| :--- | :--- |

> | Anonymous | ns-inputters |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Anonymous | `ns-inputter`s |
```
